This is all just tooling.
Are these tools gonna
be around in ten years?
I have no idea.
Are they super,
super conventional right now and for
the last few years and for hopefully
[LAUGH] several years at least to come?
Yes, question.
>> So edlint--fix fixes syntax errors and
things,
and then Prettier fixes spacing,
tabs, etc.
>> Bingo, so Prettier is,
again, the name is sort
of a good reminder that it's about
making the style of your code.
For example, indentation,
semicolons or not,
spaces around those brackets,
what have you?
Double quotes, single quotes,
all that kinda stuff,
making your style both
consistent internally.
And because we saved the exact
version consistent within everybody
in a project and that doesn't matter
when it's just me hacking away on my
own little toy selfie cam.
But when I'm working with other people,
whether on an open source project and
they're just other friendly
strangers on the interwebs.
Or whether it's my coworkers and we're all
working in a code base together, having
that enforcement of everybody has the same
opinion on semicolons is very useful.
So that people aren't constantly
overwriting each other's changes in a very
trivial way when we don't have, let's say,
a Git commit that says you changed
a thousand lines of code because you added
semicolons to them or what have you, so
that is what Prettier is for.
But ESLint s going to know
a lot more about things,
for example,
having an unused const variable
stylistically might look beautiful.
But in terms of the actual
functionality and
the keeping our code base
as kind of a lean and
fit as possible,
that is not a formatting problem.
That's a sort of a higher level problem
of how we want our code base
to be polished, if you will.
So this is the idea is that these days,
and it is possible to use ESLint for
formatting, editing, and
it is also possible to combine
them in all bunches of weird ways.
And there's a whole bunch of different
ways that over the years this has evolved.
But for now, the kind of best
practice is to use Prettier for
formatting, and ESLint for syntax,
and any other types of errors
that are gonna make our code
base a little bit more clean and
a little bit less likely to give
us a headache at [LAUGH] runtime.
Okay, so back to our VS Code magic,
what can VS Code do?
A lot of stuff.
So yeah, again there's a whole on
Frontend Masters course about VS Code.
But suffice it to say, and it perhaps
is no surprise given that Github and
VS Code are both Microsoft situations,
the git version control and
Github integrations are already
out of the box part of VS Code.
There is a Source Control tab in VS Code.
So if I go to my tabs over here,
I'm used to using this file tab, or
I can search for
things throughout my repo.
And then there's this one here that looks
like the kind of Git logo a little bit,
and that is where, well, I guess I
haven't initialized one in this, but
let's look at one where I have,
no, not this one, okay.
[LAUGH] All right, and
if you've got some changes,
spoilers, spoilers, spoilers, okay, so
maybe I don't know, I have a new,
I have a new or a fewer commands.
Comma, no, [LAUGH] okay, so
once I have changes that my Git
repository doesn't know about yet,
I can also instead of doing the Git
commands at the command line,
I can also type in my commit message and
commit them here.
So if you're a little bit more
comfortable using this kind of interface
to manage your git ads and your Git
commits and things like that, go for it.
Personally, I guess I got used to it
before VS Code swept the world [LAUGH] and
so I don't use this tab so much, so
I don't know all of its bells and
whistles, but totally legit.
It is just basically an interface
to be doing those commands for you.
And it's also possible to integrate
your VS Code with your Github account.
So there's a link In the slides and
VS Code will helpfully suggest.
I believe that you do all of this for you.
So have at it, I personally don't, but
go for it if that is your vibe.
So you don't have to do anything special
if you have VS Code to get Git and
Github integrated.
But there's also in our
handy-dandy panel here,
I'm a little too zoomed in for you to see.
But there's also Extensions panel
here where we can look for, my goodness.
Okay, we can look for
a particular extension like ESLint, and
there's a million keyboard shortcuts for
VS Code, but
I haven't taken the time
to learn them all.
I only have a few.
[LAUGH] Go take that course about VS Code
to probably learn a lot more dips and
tricks.
Anyway, so we can search for extensions
in the Extensions tab and we can find
extensions for things like ESLint, and
for Prettier, and we can install them.
And these are like,
we'll have to set that up.
And then we can also configure
them to say, for example, hey,
ESLint, use whatever ESLint
config I have in this project.
So I can go to this settings here,
Extension settings, yes.
And then I can tweak things,
I can tell it where to find config files,
I can tell it what type of config
we're using, cuz there's currently
a migration in process of ESLint config
syntax, just to spice up our lives.
Anyway, the settings for all of these
extensions are, again, just like as many
settings as there might be command line
flags, and options, and things like that.
So we're not gonna cover all of that,
but suffice it to say,
you can also set your VS Code up so
that when you press Ctrl+S or
Cmd+S, Prettier automatically
reformats your code, let's say.
And so that when you type in an error,
ESLint squiggles
a little red line under it to
tell you that there is a problem.
And so that is what we have been
seeing when I do things like nonsense.
When I hover over that squiggle,
I'll see that ESLint and
ESLint's rule called no undefined
variables,which is a very helpful
thing to have in your project,
is saying nonsense is not defined.
And this is how I can even before
I have to go to the command and
run npm run lint and all this stuff,
I can make sure as I type
that things are in order.
Okay, so that is all the magic
that's been happening here.
For example, Prettier just said, hey,
you got all those useless extra
lines at the top of your thing.
So when you save, because I have my
VS Code setup to format on save,
it deletes all those extra spaces for me.
So this is all tooling again.
[LAUGH] So far, this is basically
has nothing to do with JavaScript
except that these are very,
very conventional tools in our community.
[LAUGH]